---
title: Overview
layout: doc
permalink: /doc/overview
section: documentation
subsection: overview
summary: A brief overview of the high level principles behind Pallet and an
         outline of how it operates on cloud nodes and server-racks.
---

Features
--------

### No Dependencies

The machines being managed require no special
dependencies to be installed. As long as they have bash and ssh
running, they can be used with pallet. For me this was important - it
means that you can use pretty much any image out there, which is great
for ad-hoc testing and development.

### No Server

Pallet has no central server to set up and maintain - it simply runs
on demand. You can run it from anywhere, even over a remote REPL
connection.

### Everything in Version Control

In pallet, all your configuration is handled in SCM controlled files -
there is no database involved. This means that your configuration can
always be kept in step with the development of your crates, and the
versions of the external crates that you use.

### Jar File Distribution of Crates

Custom crates can be distributed as jar files, and so can be published
in maven repositories, and be consumed in a version controlled manner.
Hopefully this will promote shared crates.

### Provisioning, Configuration and Administration

Pallet aims quite wide. You can use it for starting and stopping nodes,
for configuring nodes, deploying projects and also for running
administration tasks. To be honest, this wasn't an initial design
goal, but has come out of the wash that way.

How it works
------------

Pallet is written in [Clojure](http://clojure.org), and so runs in a
JVM. You can embed it in any JVM based project, or use it directly at
the REPL.

Pallet [talks to a cloud provider]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/reference/providers) , in
order to start up new nodes, etc. It does this using the excellent
[jclouds](http://jclouds.org) library. Once the nodes are running,
Pallet uses SSH to
[communicate with the nodes]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/reference/node-push).

To execute actions on the nodes, pallet executes shell scripts. These
scripts are generated in `clojure`. At the lowest level, Pallet
[embeds shell script]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/reference/script) in `clojure`, and wraps
shell script fragments into `clojure` functions, creating reusable
resources.

Of course, no two operating systems are identical, so Pallet allows
dispatching of the functions based on packager, etc, enabling
abstraction of a node's operating system.

Higher level [crates]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/reference/crates) are then put together,
that use the resources to install packages, etc. Crates can also be
implemented using the same machinery as resource functions.

[Node types]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/reference/node-types) are defined that specify a tag
and the sequence of crates to apply for each of a number of phases. By
default, pallet defines `bootstrap` and `configure` phases, but you
can add as many phases as you like (e.g. `backup`).

[Phases]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/reference/phases) are executed using either the
[`converge` or `lift` commands]({{site.baseurl}}/doc/reference/operations), with
`converge` also adjusting the number of nodes running for each tag.
