---
title: Porting Pallet 0.7 to 0.8
permalink: /doc/reference/0.8/porting-0.7-to-0.8
layout: reference
section: documentation
subsection: reference
summary: Guide to migration from pallet 0.7 to pallet 0.8
---

# Artifacts

The pallet 0.8 projects are now using leiningen.  They are being published to
clojars using the `com.palletops` group-id.

The crate artifact-ids now end in `-crate`, e.g. `java-crate`.

# Compute Service

The `pallet.configure/compute-service` function can no longer be used to
instantiate providers directly - use `pallet.compute/instantiate-provider` to do
this.  Continue to use `pallet.configure/compute-service` to look up service
definitions in `~/.pallet/config.clj`.

# Phases and Plans

Phase functions are now referred to as plan functions.  Plan functions no longer
take a session argument, and the session map does not need threading through the
actions.  This change makes writing pallet code simpler.

The `phase-fn` equivalent is now
[`pallet.api/plan-fn`](/pallet/api/0.8/pallet.api#var-plan-fn).  Note that
unlike with `phase-fn`, plain vars will not be called; you will need to ensure
that they are function calls by putting them in parens. So, `(plan-fn
(automated-admin-user))` rather than `(plan-fn automated-admin-user)`.


The crate plan functions are now written using the
[`pallet.crate/defplan`](/pallet/api/0.8/pallet.crate#var-defplan) form.  The
`defplan` form is optional, you can use a plain function.  `defplan` adds
logging and context automatically.

The `:configure` phase is the default phase for `converge` and `lift` but is no
longer always enforced on `converge`.

# Namespace changes:

* The specs and top level `lift` and `converge` from `pallet.core` are now in
  `pallet.api`.
* `pallet.core/phase-fn` is now `pallet.api/plan-fn`
* the session lookup functions from `pallet.session` are now in `pallet.crate`.
* the parameter settings functions are now in `pallet.crate`.
* `pallet.utils/make-user` is now `pallet.api/make-user`. There is now also a
  `pallet.core.user/make-user` that takes a map rather than varargs, and doesn't
  provide defaults.
* `*admin-user*` is now in `pallet.core.user`.
* actions are now all defined in `pallet.actions`

# lift and converge

`lift` and `converge` now optionally return operations.  When passing
`:async true`, you can wait on the result of an operation by `deref`ing it. The
operation supports the pallet.fsmop/Control protocol. This provides
`abort`, `status`, `complete?`, `failed?` and `wait-for` functions. Using
`status`, you can now follow how far pallet has got in the execution of the
`lift` or `converge`.

# Low level lift and converge

`pallet.core.operations` provide lower level implementations of `lift` and
`converge` that operate on sequences of node-maps, where a node-map is
essentially a `group-spec` with a :node key containing a value implementing the
pallet.node/Node protocol.

These operations allow you to specify the targets in a more flexible fashion
than their `pallet.api` counterparts.

Below this, there is `pallet.core.primitives` that provide various low level
finite state machines, which can be used to compose your own variotions of
`lift` and `compose` that have potentially different semantics.

At the bottom, `pallet.core.api` provides the base functions used to build the
primitives and the operations.
