---
title: Glossary
layout: reference
permalink: /doc/reference/glossary
section: documentation
subsection: reference
summary: A glossary of terms used by Pallet
prior: /doc/reference/logging
---

Pallet uses the following domain terms:

Action
: The basic unit of configuration supplied by pallet.

Action plan
: A sequence of actions that have been called by phase.

Cluster Spec
: A collection of groups, each with a :count key, that can be used to specify a
  cluster of heterogeneous group specs.  A cluster may have a prefix, that is
  added to all the group names.

Crate
: A namespace containing crate functions

Crate Function
: A function taking a session and other arguments.  A crate
  function can call other crate functions and actions.

Environment
: A map that is used to pass in external data and configuration
  together with the servers that are running for that into
  pallet pallet.  Can be specified at various scopes.

Group
: A group of identically configured nodes, represented as a group-spec.

Group Name
: The name used to identify a group.

Group Spec
: A group of identically configured nodes, represented as a map
  with :group-name, :count and server-spec keys.  The
  group-name is used to link running nodes to their
  configuration (via pallet.compute.Node/group-name)

Node
: A node is a machine, either a physical server or a virtual machine.

Node Spec
: A specification for a node. The node-spec provides an image,
  hardware, location and network template for starting new
  nodes.

Phase
: A phase is a discrete set of configuration or other actions that you wish to
  be able to execute. It is a function taking a session, and calling crate
  functions and actions.

Settings
: A map that is used to pass pass values between crates.  Can be
  used on same node, or across nodes.

Role
: A keyword that can be used to locate groups that implement a specific
  server-spec.  It is attached to the server or group spec's `:roles` set.

Server
: A map used to descibe the node, image, etc of a single node running
  as part of a group. A server has the following
  keys :group-name, :node, :node-id and server-spec keys.

Server Spec
: A specification for a server. This is a map of phases and a
  default node-spec. A server-spec has the following keys
  :phase, :packager and node-spec keys.

Session
: A map that is used to hold state and context information for the
  duration of a lift or converge call
